Ubuntu: Docker Configuration

sudo apt install git

git clone url
username:
password : personal access token---------------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

sudo apt install maven

sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
sudo apt-add-repository universe
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install maven

mvn -version
mvn clean

sudo apt install openjdk-17-jdk

build using :

mvn package

save file:  :wq

Installing docker :

sudo apt update
curl -fsSL get.docker.com | /bin/bash
sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu 
exit


To check docker images:

docker images 


docker build . -f Dockerfile.txt


while creating docker file Name Should be "Dockerfile"

docker run -d -p 8080:8080 subscriberservice

Note: If you’ve created a Docker container, but it’s not showing up when you run docker ps, there could be a few reasons for this behavior.

Check Container Status: First, ensure that the container is actually running. You mentioned that the container is created, but it might not be in a running state. Use the following command to see all containers (including stopped ones):
docker ps -a
If your container is listed here, it means it was created but is not currently running. To start it, use:
docker start CONTAINER_ID


Restart Docker Service: Sometimes, Docker’s internal state can get out of sync. Restarting the Docker service can help. Run the following command:
sudo systemctl restart docker
This will restart Docker, and any containers set to auto-start will come back online. Note that this will kill all running containers, but they’ll be automatically restarted.
Check Docker Version and Images: Verify that you’re using the correct Docker version. Run:
docker -v
Ensure that the version matches what you expect. Also, check if you have any Docker images:
docker images
If you don’t see any images, it might indicate an issue with Docker itself.
Check Listening Ports: You mentioned that the listening ports are blocked by “docker-pr.” Make sure there are no firewall rules or other network-related issues preventing Docker from functioning properly.
Permissions and User Context: Ensure that you’re running Docker commands with appropriate permissions. You might need to use sudo or add your user to the docker group (if not already done).
Inspect Container Logs: If the container is running but not showing up, inspect its logs for any errors:
docker logs CONTAINER_ID
This might provide clues about why the container isn’t visible.




